New Entry C & C++ Macros (#824)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/macros/macros.md

---
Title: 'Macros'
Description: 'A macro is a label defined in the source code that is replaced by its value by the preprocessor before compilation.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Command Line'
  - 'Developer Tools'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **macro** is a label defined in the source code that is replaced by its value by the preprocessor before compilation. Macros are initialized with the `#define` preprocessor command and can be undefined with the `#undef` command.

> There are two basic types of macros, object-like macros and function-like macros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of macros: [object](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/objects)-like macros and [function](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/functions)-like macros.
```

## Object-like Macros

> These macros are simply replaced by their value in the source code before compilation. These are typically used to define constants to be used in the code. Note that macro definitions are not followed by a semicolon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These macros are replaced by their value in the source code before compilation. Their primary purpose is defining constants to be used in the code.

**Note**: Macro definitions are not followed by a semicolon `;`.
```

### Example

> In the following example `PI` is defined as an object-like macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, `PI` is defined as an object-like macro:
```

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

#define PI 3.1416

int main() {
  float radius = 3;
  float area;
  area = PI * radius * radius;
  cout << "Area is " << area;
  return 0;
}
```

This example outputs the following:

```shell
Area is 28.2744
```

## Function-like Macros

> These macros behave like functions, in that they take arguments that are used in the replaced code. Note that in defining a function-like macro, there cannot be a space between the macro name and the opening parenthesis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These macros behave like functions, in that they take arguments that are used in the replaced code.

**Note**: When defining a function-like macro, there cannot be a space between the macro name and the opening parenthesis.
```

### Example

> In the following example `AREA` is defined as a function-like macro. Note that other macros can be used in defining a subsequent macro. The inner macro is replaced by its value before the outer macro is replaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, `AREA` is defined as a function-like macro. Note that other macros can be used in defining a subsequent macro. The inner macro is replaced by its value before the outer macro is replaced.
```

```c
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

#define PI 3.1416
#define AREA(r) r * r * PI

int main() {
  float radius = 5;
  float result;
  result = AREA(radius);
  cout << "Area is " << result;
  return 0;
}
```

This example outputs the following:

```shell
Area is 78.54
```

## Predefined Macros

> C++ has a number of predefined macros, here's a list of the most prominent ones:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C++ has a number of predefined macros, including the following:
```

> - `__DATE__`: Current date formatted as MMM DD YYYY.
> - `__TIME__`: Current time formatted as HH:MM:SS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `__DATE__`: Current date formatted as `MMM DD YYYY`.
- `__TIME__`: Current time formatted as `HH:MM:SS`.
```

- `__FILE__`: Current filename.
- `__LINE__`: Current line number.

### Example

> The following example uses the above predefined macros:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the predefined macros mentioned above:
```

> ```c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cpp
```

---
Title: 'Macros'
Description: 'A macro is a label defined in the source code that is replaced by its value by the preprocessor before compilation.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Command Line'
  - 'Developer Tools'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **macro** is a label defined in the source code that is replaced by its value by the preprocessor before compilation. Macros are initialized with the `#define` preprocessor command and can be undefined with the `#undef` command.

There are two types of macros: [object](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/objects)-like macros and [function](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/functions)-like macros.

## Object-like Macros

> These macros are replaced by their value in the source code before compilation. Their primary purpose is defining constants to be used in the code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These macros are replaced by their value in the source code before compilation. Their primary purpose is to define constants to be used in the code.
```

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

#define PI 3.1416
#define AREA(r) r * r * PI

int main() {
  float radius = 5;
  float result;
  result = AREA(radius);
  cout << "Area is " << result;
  return 0;
}
```

This example outputs the following:

```shell
Area is 78.54
```

## Predefined Macros

C++ has a number of predefined macros, including the following:

- `__DATE__`: Current date formatted as `MMM DD YYYY`.
- `__TIME__`: Current time formatted as `HH:MM:SS`.
- `__FILE__`: Current filename.
- `__LINE__`: Current line number.

### Example

The following example uses the predefined macros mentioned above:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {

char file[] = __FILE__;
char date[] = __DATE__;
char time[] = __TIME__;
int line = __LINE__;

cout << "File name: " << file << "\n";
cout << "Date: " << date << "\n";
cout << "Time: " << time << "\n";
cout << "Line number: " << line << "\n";
}
```

The output resembles the following:

```shell
File name: main.cpp
Date: Jun 25 2022
Time: 14:17:50
Line number: 9

> ```

Reviewer 2: Like in my comment in the c entry, can there be an example showing the `#undef` command?
